Let's now create a more advanced Postman setup,
in order to make our lives a bit easier
when working with this tool.
So, back here in Postman,
the first concept that I want to show you
is the concept of environment.
So, maybe you've noticed that up here it says
no environment, right?
And, so that's because, well,
at this point we haven't created any environment.
All right.
And, so, basically, an environment is like a context
where our app is running.
And, we can then specify a couple of variables
for each of these environments.
And, the two ones that make the most sense is,
just as we have in our express application,
the development and the production environment.
So, let's start by adding our first, our environment here.
OK.
And, I'm gonna call this one depth and then for naters,
so the name of our application.
OK.
And, so the variable that I'm gonna create here is called
URL.
Because that's the most important thing
that I want to change from one environment to the other.
So, in development, we will have one URL,
and then in production, we will have another one.
Right.
And, so, let's now set the URL here to
http
127001,
which stands for localhost.
Then, port 3000
and, I think that's actually it.
So, that's the initial value of our URL variable.
OK.
So, let's now add
And, so just like this, we have our new depth environment.
We can then add one for production as well.
But, right here we don't really have a URL
just yet.
So, that simply said Naters dot io,
which does not exist.
OK.
But, this is simply, let's say, a placeholder.
All right?
OK.
So, let's now actually go ahead and use
this environment variable that we just created.
So, remember, it's called URL.
And, so now, what I want to do
is to go ahead and replace this URL here
so, this here, with the variable that we just created.
And, we do that by using curly braces,
the name of the variable,
and then curly braces again.
All right.
And, so this will basically now be replaced
with the variable coming from our environment.
Now, when we hover this, we can see that it is
unresolved, but that's because we didn't choose
our environment yet.
So, we need to come to this menu here
and then we select depth to Naters.
And, so if we hover it now, you will see
that it's actually the variable that we just defined before.
OK.
So, if we try to send a request now, then, of course,
we get the correct response just like we did before.
OK.
And, so I hope you can see how useful this will be
later when we're in production.
Because, if we didn't have these environment variables,
then later on, when we want to switch to testing
this API in production,
then we would have to go ahead and
manually change all of these URLs in all of the requests.
And, for now, we don't have that many.
But, imagine we have 30 or 50 or 100 requests,
and we would then manually have to change these URLs
in all of them.
And, that would not be fun at all.
And, so now we will do that once
and then it's done for the rest of
the project development.
Right?
So, if we change now to production, for example,
then, well, here we would have Naters dot io
and then API v1 and tours.
All right.
So, let's now go ahead and copy this
and actually paste it into all of these.
So, of course we have to do it once now.
But again, it's better to do it now that we don't
have that many endpoints here yet,
than to do it later.
So, save this one.
Save this one again.
Actually, let's get rid of this property.
So, save.
Save.
And, save this one as well.
So, I'll do it in all of them now.
OK, just very quickly.
And, these two already have it.
All right.
Then, get all tours.
Get tour does not.
All right, save.
And, actually, we can hit Command-S,
just like in any other app.
And, then Command-W to close the tab.
OK.
So, just like in Google Chrome,
for example.
So, Command-Save, Command-S,
and then Command-W.
So, just to make it a bit faster,
And, now we're almost done here.
And, that's it.
OK.
And, so just like this we have basically
future-proofed our API development here with Postman.
Next up, remember how in the last lecture,
I said that I was gonna automate basically
the process of copying this token here.
And, then pasting it right here into this bare header.
All right.
And, so let's now actually do that.
And, for that, we will actually have to
write a little bit of code.
But, that's no problem at all.
So, let's do that.
And, sign up and then login.
Cause these are the two places,
so the two endpoints
from which we will receive a json web token, right?
So, we come here to the test tab,
which we haven't used yet.
And, so here we will programmatically set
an environment variable.
OK.
So, we created environment variables before
using this dialogue here, OK?
But, now here with code, we will basically
programmatically create an environment variable as well.
And, we will create one for the json web token
that we receive in the request.
OK.
And, so basically all we need to do is to use
the snippets that we have here.
All right.
So, in this case, we want to set an environment variable
and, so let's just click here.
And, indeed, we get this pre-written code for us here.
OK.
This is basically just some JavaScript
that we can access here in Postman.
So, PM, which probably stands for Postman,
dot environment, which is the current environment.
And, then, set.
So, set the variable called JWT.
And, then, of course, the value of that.
And, where is that value?
Well, it is in PM dot response
dot json.
So, basically, to convert it to json.
And, then dot token.
And, it's dot token here, of course,
because that's the name of our property
in the response object.
OK.
So, basically, this code here gets the response for us
and, then, on there we can write the dot token property,
and then assign to the JWT environment variable.
OK.
And, so now we have an active test here,
which is why we get this blue dot
or a green one, maybe, (laughing)
and so let's now test it out.
So, let's sign up with a new user.
I'm calling it test user.
We need to get rid of this comma.
And, now let's send it.
And, we could not get any response.
And, that's because I have naters dot io here.
So, I'm in the wrong environment.
So, of course, we want to be in development.
So, send it again.
And, so here indeed, we get our token.
And, so let's now check if it is in our
environment as well.
So, for that, we come here.
Def, naters, and indeed, here we now get JWT
and then this token that we have also down here.
OK.
That token variable that we have here
should be the exact same as the one down here.
So, Postman got it from here,
and then posted it as this new environment variable.
OK.
So, that's the first step and the second step
is to now go to one of our protected routes,
which, in this case, is only this one.
And, then here we can actually delete
this at all.
So, right over on this side,
OK.
So, get rid of all of that.
And, then here we have,
as you maybe have seen,
an authorization tab.
OK.
So, here we can now specify the type
of authorization.
And, you see all of these differents here,
but we are going to choose the Bearer Token.
OK.
So, just like we have specified Bearer
in our token,
we also have to name Bearer here.
OK.
So, Bearer Token.
And, now all we need to do is to specify the token.
And, remember how we do that?
Well, actually the exact same way as we did up here.
So, curly braces, curly braces,
JWT, and then close it.
So, it turns orange
and that means that it should now work.
And, let's now test this.
And, bam, here we go.
So, we really got access to the data,
which means that the token was successfully sent.
All right.
And, we can actually see that here
in the headers.
So, it automatically pre-filled this header
now for us.
So, we have authorization where we have Bearer
and all of this good stuff here.
And, actually, it also now
put all of this stuff here for us.
OK.
So, actually, this is exactly what we saw before
when we previewed the request dot headers object
in express.
Remember that?
OK.
You see here that it's actually just
temporary generated.
So just so we get a preview.
All right.
And, so, that's actually it.
This makes our life so much easier
when we're working here with authentication.
Because, each time we want to add a new
protected route,
all we need to do is to come here
to the authorization tab and then add
this variable here
and specify that we're working
with a Bearer token.
All right.
And, actually, I just realized that
we're not just yet.
Because, we have this here in sign up,
so, this test.
But, of course, we also need it in login.
So, that's the other place
from which we can get a new, fresh token.
Right?
So, let's copy this,
give this one a save,
also save this one,
and, then here at login,
post it here.
Save it.
And, I don't even need to test it
because, well it should work just the same
as with sign up.
All right.
OK.
This was very important
for us in order to move on
and to make our lives a bit easier
when you're working with Postman
for your API development.